== certbot ==
* https://certbot.eff.org/#debianjessie-apache

=== Enable jessie-backports ===
<pre>
$ echo "deb http://ftp.debian.org/debian jessie-backports main" >> /etc/apt/sources.list
</pre>

I had to add the testing repo temporarily.

=== Install certbot ===
<pre>
$ sudo apt-get install python-certbot-apache -t jessie-backports
</pre>

=== Obtain / Renew certs ===
Dry-run:
<pre>
$ sudo certbot renew --dry-run
</pre>

Update:
<pre>
$ sudo certbot renew
</pre>

Add to root's cron and check twice daily:
<pre>
0 3,15 * * * certbot renew --quiet 
</pre>

== Old method < 2016-06 ==
https://letsencrypt.org/howitworks/
<pre>
$ git clone https://github.com/letsencrypt/letsencrypt
$ cd letsencrypt
$ ./letsencrypt-auto --help
$ ./letsencrypt-auto --apache
IMPORTANT NOTES:
 - Congratulations! Your certificate and chain have been saved at
   /etc/letsencrypt/live/drew.invadelabs.com/fullchain.pem. Your cert
   will expire on 2016-05-15. To obtain a new version of the
   certificate in the future, simply run Let's Encrypt again.
 - If you like Let's Encrypt, please consider supporting our work by:

   Donating to ISRG / Let's Encrypt:   https://letsencrypt.org/donate
   Donating to EFF:                    https://eff.org/donate-le
</pre>

Per domain:
<pre>
./letsencrypt-auto run --apache -d drew-bg.invadelabs.com

 - Congratulations! Your certificate and chain have been saved at
   /etc/letsencrypt/live/drew-bg.invadelabs.com/fullchain.pem. Your
   cert will expire on 2016-07-09. To obtain a new version of the
   certificate in the future, simply run Let's Encrypt again.

SSLCertificateFile /etc/letsencrypt/live/drew-bg.invadelabs.com/fullchain.pem
SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/letsencrypt/live/drew-bg.invadelabs.com/privkey.pem
Include /etc/letsencrypt/options-ssl-apache.conf
</pre>